# Qwry
CS 386 Software Project 

## Working Demo
http://cefns.nau.edu/~esb57/cs386/index.php

## Requirements
Qwry: Evaluate lectures dynamically and improve student understanding in the classroom

1. Proposal

1.1 Target 
Qwry, the proposed web application software, is intended for use in both high school and university lectures. 

1.2 Purpose
The software is intended to improve learning during lectures by creating a more interactive and thoughtful rapport between students and the lecturer by using a virtual classroom environment. Crafting good questions often leads to better learning in the students who ask them, [1] but not all students are eager to interrupt class to ask a question for a number of reasons.

1.3 Force fairness
The application should even the playing field in large lecture halls by prioritizing questions in the order they are asked. 

1.4 Overcome insecurity
The option of anonymity will encourage hesitant students to ask questions when they may have otherwise opted out. 

1.5 Inform the lecturer
Qwry also helps professors and teachers analyze the effectiveness of their lecture in real time, as well as have an aggregate of student questions available at the end of a lecture. 

1.6 Learn online easier
As we move towards a more global, more connected, more educated society, this software could potentially be implemented for online classrooms, where a video of the lecture could be recorded and streamed, and the virtual classroom allows for a more interactive and rewarding experience for all students, wherever they may be.

1.7 Make it open, make it free
The web application will run in a web browser, making it fast to develop and open the availability to any student and lecturer with access to a web browser during the lecture. 

1.8 Move forward
As computers become more commonplace in the classroom, it is important to embrace the use of technology to increase productivity rather than allow it to be a detriment. 





2. Functionality

2.1 Opening Qwry
2.1.1 Qwry will be available as a web application, open to all users with web browsers.

2.1.2 Professors and teachers can sign in with a special account  and create a virtual classroom.
A check box will prompt the user to define their user account as a teacher.
When a ‘teacher’ account is created, the user is brought to their new virtual classroom and given a newly generated unique classroom identification number.

2.1.3 Students create a username each time they log in (much like a simple chat room) and check into the virtual classroom their professor has created.
A check box will prompt the user to define their user account as a student.
Text fields will prompt the student for their desired username and the ID of the virtual classroom.

2.1.4 These two different modes, teacher and student mode, have different options and views available to the user once they are logged in to the virtual classroom.


2.2 Student mode

2.2.1 A simple text field allows the student to write and send short messages and clarifying questions to the lecturer by clicking a submit button. 

2.2.2 The student will rate their understanding using a scale, where the bottom of the scale indicates the lecture is not clear, or that the content is too difficult, and the top of the scale indicates the student understands the lecture and is learning.
Desired functionality: a sliding scale where 100% is at the top and indicates complete understanding and 0% is at the bottom and represents no understanding.
Proposed functionality: Radio buttons on an A+ to F scale.

2.2.3 If the student is at a critical level of understanding (i.e. the understanding scale is set very low) they have the option to alert the teacher with a push of a button to stop the lecture to help, equivalent to raising their hand.
The button will normally be hidden, to discourage students from distracting the lecturer.




2.3 Teacher mode:

2.3.1 The lecturer will see a list of questions sent by students, listed in order of when they were sent, signed with a unique username which identifies the student who asked the question.
The queue will be prominently displayed, taking up nearly half of the browser content, to be large and easily readable.

2.3.2 The lecturer will also see a grade, updated dynamically, generated by the aggregate of the value of each student’s understanding scale.
Desired functionality: A percentage of total student ratings will be generated based off of the sliding scales available to the students.
Proposed functionality: A regular letter grade will be generated from the results of the student’s chosen grades for the lecture.

2.4 Quality requirements

2.4.1 The questions are asked in order on the lecturer’s queue, and sent to the lecturer quickly. The questions appear smoothly, and their appearance does not interfere with their order.

2.4.2 The design is big, colorful and readable. It should be easy to look at from a tablet or a computer screen that may not be directly in front of the user.

2.4.3 The functionality must be unobtrusive in the classroom. Loud noises should be avoided and it should be easy to craft a readable question.

2.5 After School Special (Desired Functionality):
Qwry will produce a graph of Understanding Over Time available to the professor. The x-axis represents time, where the y-axis represents a percentage of understanding in the virtual classroom.
The questions for each class session will be exported to a text document available to the professor or the students.
A WYSIWYG text editor that allows students to type special characters that may be useful in math and physics classes, or a special ‘code’ font for use in computer science classes
A lecturer will be provided with a checkbox on each question to mark that question ‘answered’. The question will not disappear, but it will be marked with a special color to indicate that it has been answered.

2.6 Features not available:
There will be a code similar to normal classroom etiquette, but usernames and messages sent to the professor will not be censored and student anonymity will be protected.




3. Assumptions

	3.1 No change in requirements
The developers assume that the scope of the project will not change and the acceptance criteria put forward by this document will be the determining factor in whether or not the development application is successful. This is assumed due to the use of the Waterfall Model as a development process for this project.

3.2 Open to interpretation
“Web application” means this functionality will be available on the internet, through a web browser. There are many ways to develop and distribute a web application, whether it be through pure code such as javascript or php, or with the help of a web framework such as Django.

4. Acceptance Criteria

4.1 Qwry is available on a web browser
Every person with an internet connection and a web browser installed on their computer can somehow access and run the Qwry application.

4.2 Students may write and send their questions
Students are able to create a username to get access to the text box where they will craft their questions. The submit process must clear that textbox so the student can write more questions if need be.

4.3 The lecturer may receive questions
All questions sent by students are received and viewable by the lecturer, in her queue.

4.4  The lecturer is aware of the lecture’s effectiveness
The students are able ‘grade’ the lecture. The lecturer's effectiveness is accurately given by the resulting indicator in ‘teacher mode’.

